## Automated ELK Stack Deployment

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.

Path of Network Diagram: Diagrams/ElkStack_VNets.png

These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the playbook file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

  - Path of the playbook file: Ansible/ansible-playbook.yml

This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topologu
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly available, in addition to restricting access to the network.
Load balancers protect against denial of service attacks (DDoS). The advantage of the jump box is that is only allows the jump box's IP to ssh into the web servers. 

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the logs and system traffic.
- What does Filebeat watch for? Filebeat monitors the log files or locations that you specify, collects log events, and forwards them either to Elasticsearch or Logstash.
- What does Metricbeat record? Metricbeat records metric data from your target servers, such as CPU or services running, and forwards them to Elasticsearch or Logstash.

The configuration details of each machine may be found below.
_Note: Use the [Markdown Table Generator](http://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables) to add/remove values from the table_.

| Name       | Function         | IP Address | Operating System |
|------------|------------------|------------|------------------|
| Jump Box   | Gateway          | 10.0.0.7   | Ubuntu 18.04-LTS |
| Web-1      | Web Server       | 10.0.0.5   | Ubuntu 18.04-LTS |
| Web-2      | Web Server       | 10.0.0.6   | Ubuntu 18.04-LTS |
| Elk Server | ELK Stack Server | 10.1.0.4   | Ubuntu 18.04-LTS |


### Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the Jump Box machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:
- My Personal IP

Machines within the network can only be accessed by the jump box (Public IP: 168.61.41.173).
Only the Jump Box is allowed to ssh into the ELK VM. The Jump Box's Public IP is 168.61.41.173.

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

| Name       | Publicly Accessible  | Allowed IP Addresses |
|------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| Jump Box   | Yes                  | Personal IP          |
| Web-1      | Yes via Load Balancer| LB: 168.61.41.173    |
| Web-2      | Yes via Load Balancer| LB: 168.61.41.173    |
| Elk Server | Yes                  | 168.61.41.173        |


### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because it allows IT administrators to automate their every day tasks to save time. 

The playbook implements the following tasks:
- Installs docker.io
- Installs python3-pip
- Installs Docker Module
- Increases Virtual Memory
- Downloads & Launches a Docker ELK Container
- Enables Service Docker on Boot

The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.

Images/docker_ps_output.png

### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
- Web-1 10.0.0.5
- Web-2 10.0.0.6

We have installed the following Beats on these machines:
- Filebeat
- Metricbeat

These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:
- Filebeat is often used to collect log files from specific processes, such as logs generated by Apache or Microsoft Azure tools.
- Metricbeat collects metrics from your systems and services such as CPU or memory usage and services currently running on the machine

### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
- Copy the install-elk.yml file to /etc/ansible.
- Update the /etc/ansible/hosts file to include the group with the machine IPs you want to install the elk container on.
- Run the playbook, and navigate to HTTP://(ELKserverIP):5601/app/kibana to check that the installation worked as expected.

Answer the following questions to fill in the blanks:_
- Which file is the playbook? Where do you copy it?
  - The file for the Filebeat playbook is filebeat-playbook.yml and is copied to the /etc/filebeat directory. The file for the Metricbeat playbook is metricbeat-playbook.yml and is copied to the /etc/metricbeat directory.

- Which file do you update to make Ansible run the playbook on a specific machine? How do I specify which machine to install the ELK server on versus which to install Filebeat on?
  - You update the /etc/ansible/hosts file to make Ansible run on a specific machine. You update each playbook file and edit the hosts line to specify what machines that specific playbook file runs on.
- Which URL do you navigate to in order to check that the ELK server is running?
  - HTTP://(ELKserverIP):5601/app/kibana

_As a **Bonus**, provide the specific commands the user will need to run to download the playbook, update the files, etc._
